# 05.030 Recursion

Recursion is a function that calls itself.  There are two forms of recursion.

* Direct recursion -- A function directly calls itself.
* Indirect recursion -- Two or more functions call each other, and they may involve circular references so they end up calling each other.
  * Example:  A card say "See other side" on one side.  On the other it says "Over."

## Repetition

Recursion is a method of repeating actions.  In Computer Science, repeating actions is called "looping."

In most programs when there is looping there must be a way to stop the loop.

```python
# infiniteRecursion.py

# Demonstrates what happens when there is no way to stop recursion

# badCounter() is a function that counts.  It has no way to stop itself.

def badCounter(number):
    print("The count is now", number)
    badCounter(number + 1)

# The main program starts here

print("Begin...")
badCounter(1)
print("Done!")
```

Python has a built-in counter that prevents the program from running forever.  Older programming languages don't have this.  The computer would sometimes be locked up and would have to be rebooted to recover.

## The Stack

The stack is an area of memory that the program uses.  Every time a function is called, the local variables and other information is placed on the stack.  When a function ends the data is removed from the stack.

Illustration:  Set a breakpoint on the line `print("Begin...")` and watch the debugger as you step through the program.  

In order to clarify, change the function slightly and then click on the stack

```python
def badCounter(number):
    print("The count is now", number)
    next = number + 1
    badCounter(next)
```

## The "Base Case"

The key to making recursion stop is to have a "Base Case" that makes the recursion stop.

```python
# This is a good counter, as long as "stopper" is a little larger than number
def goodCounter(number, stopper):
    if number == stopper:
        print("I am stopping all this.  Bye")
    else:
        print("The number is ",number)
        goodCounter(number+1, stopper)
```

## What to know

* Be able to recognize recursion
* Be able to explain the main problem with recursion
* Be able to identify the Base Case

## The Bottom Line

Recursion is useful in certain problems.  Recursive solutions to problems often have an elegance to them that appeals to Mathematicians and some Computer Scientists.  But if there is a relatively simple non-recursive solution it is usually the better option in practical applications.