# 03.010 Overview of Functions

Functions are vital to all of programming.  We have used functions already.

* print("Hello")
* type(6.3)
* int(6.3)
* exit()
* math.sqrt(25)  #requires an "import math" statement

Note that the following is *not* a function:

```
    5 + (6 * 7)     # NOT a function!
```

## Structure of a function *call*

Programers "call" or "invoke" functions.

Functions always have parenthesis, even if the parenthesis is empty.

## Return values

Some functions return a value.  Some do not.

* round() returns a value
* print() does not return a value

*Fruitful* functions return a value

### ***Arguments***

The values that go inside the parenthesis are called "arguments."  We say that a function "takes" arguments.

* Arguments may be literals as in `print("Hello")` or `print(7)`
* Functions that return a value may be arguments.
* If there is more than one argument, then separate the arguments with commas `round(3.14159, 4)`
* The number of arguments must match the number of arguments the function expects.  In some cases the number of arguments may vary.  The `print()` function is an example.
* Arguments are not "typed"
  * This is occasionally useful, but often it is a problem
* Arguments may be variables.
  * The variables must be declared in the calling code before they are used.

```python
number = -79.343
print(number)
```

* The arguments themselves are not changed when a call is made.  
  * The only way a value is changed is if the function returns a number and the value is reassigned

```python
number = abs(number)

## Where do functions come from?

* Some functions are built in
* Some functions are imported from "packages"
* Some functions are written by the programmer

# Methods

We have not talked about classes and objects yet, but we will be using them anyway.

Sometimes functions must be linked to an object or a class.  In this situation a function is called a "method."  So a method is really just a function that is linked to a class.

```python
name = "sue"
print( name.upper() )
print( "HELLO".lower() )
print( math.sqrt(25) )
```