# 03.030 Writing our own functions

## A word about indentation


### Blocks of code

Sometimes in programs we need to group several lines of code together.  This group is called a "block"

In many languages curly braces { } are used to indicate a block of code.

```java
//Java
if (y > 0){
    float z;
    z = x/y;
    System.out.println("Z is "+ z);
}
System.out.println("Done");
```

Python uses indentation

```python
#Python
if (y > 0):
    z = x/y
    print("Z is",z)
print("Done")
```

### Default indentation

The default indentation is 4 spaces per level.  You may use other levels, but most python editors and IDEs are set to default to 4 spaces

All code that is part of the same block must have the same amount of indentation.

## Function Definitions

*Functions must be defined before they can be used!*

```
# Demonstrates simple function

#combines first name and last name with a blank between
def printName(firstName, lastName):
    fullName = firstName + " " + lastName
    print(fullName)

#Adds one to a number and print it
def printIncrement(number):
    number = number + 1
    print("The number is now ",number)

first = "Ivan"
last  = "Smith"
printName(first, last)
printName("Joe", "Evans")

double(6)
double(7.0)
double("Hello")

number = 7
increment(number)
print("But back in the main program and number is",number)
```

## Picking a good function name

Generally a function does something.  Therefore verbs and verb phrases are often good function names.

## Parameter

What we called the "argument" when calling a function is called a "parameter" within the function.

The terms "argument" and "parameter" are often used interchangeably, but technically they are different.  But the difference between the terms is a famous interview question for programming jobs (for when the interviewer can't think of a good question, I think).

Parameters may have the same name as variables in the main routine, but they may also be different.

## Scope

The "scope" of an identifier is the areas of the code where the variable may be used.

* Parameters and variables declared inside the function are "local" to the function.  They are often called "local variables."
* Changing the value of a local variable does *not* change the value of the variable in the calling function
* If there is more than one function, then each function has its own set of local variables.