# 06.010 Fruitful Functions

Fruitful functions return a value.

## `return` Statement

The return statement marks the last statement in the function that executes.

In a fruitful function a value is placed after the word return.  

### Dead Code

Dead code is code that can never be executed.  It is considered a bad thing.

One way to create dead code is to have it appear in a block after a return statement.

## Good programming style -- A single return

One principle of "Structured Programming" is that a block of code should have one entry point and one exit point.  The entry point should be at the top and the exit point should be at the bottom.

### Bad code from the textbook:

<div style="background-color:#ffcccb">

```python
#WHY IS THIS CODE NOT GOOD STYLE?
def absolute_value(x):
    if x < 0:
        return -x
    else
        return x
```

</div>

### Better style

```python
def absolute_value(x):
     if x < 0:
        result = -x
     else:
        result = x

    return result
```

### Another good way to code the function

```python
def absolute_value(x):
    result = x
    if x < 0:
        result=-x

    return result
```

#### Temporary Variables

In the above code `result` is a temporary variable.  It holds an intermediary code

## Reasons the first code is bad

* It complicates the logic.
* It is easy to overlook the multiple returns, especially if the code is complicated
* It is easy to have one point at the end of the function where the result may be examined and confirmed.


## In practice

Professional programmers might go ahead and code the first way in some situations

* Very short or trivial function
* Handing error or exception situations
* Special logic situations such as recursion
* Speed of execution

### On speed of execution

Speed of execution is not as big an issue as it used to be.  It is mainly an issue only when code is in the core of a loop that will execute many, many times.

Compilers often optimize code so that it makes it a lot more efficient.  

Python isn't a compiled language, but modern interpreters still do some optimizing.  But if execution speed is an issue then it is probably better to use another language like C.

